Thank you, thank you friends, Dharma family, thank you.
So the topic today is becoming a soft-hearted practitioner, becoming a soft-hearted practitioner.
So we'll just jump right into it and reactivate these three motivations that Ven.
Kenpo Rinpoche has always encouraged us to do whenever we begin studying or practicing
the Dharma, and anytime we're doing anything, actually, to try to really highlight and make
a living kind of presence of joy and appreciation, bodhicitta, and pure perception.
It's a joy and appreciation, or gratitude, or renunciation mind.
We're really highlighting all the amazing qualities.
And we're not emphasizing so much all the negative things or the difficult things, but
so we're really bringing into the front of our awareness all the special circumstances
that we have surrounding.
And bodhicitta have this deep concern and care, this love and appreciation for all the
beings near and far, myself included, but all these wonderful beings, we all have this
Buddha nature, and if we're sentient beings, we don't see that so much.
So we're constantly getting into trouble that's very preventable, but it's just so tempting.
We just keep getting into so much trouble and so much suffering, and it's really sad.
So just really with genuine compassion, "Oh, really?
May we be free of all these suffering and these causes of suffering, recognize our goodness,
our Buddha nature, and each other, and everyone we meet, and all the beings, really highlight
the Buddha nature, and like wish every single being be free of suffering and the causes
of suffering.
And I'll become enlightened, fully awakened, so that I can really care for beings in this
way to bring about the enlightenment of all beings."
And deepening that appreciation and recognition of Buddha nature, all beings have Buddha nature,
the very nature of mind is pure, perfect, complete, has everything, all the glorious,
wonderful qualities, it's naturally stainless and perfect.
So we've heard these teachings, so we're kind of bravely, we're also really relaxedly in
this kind of, very kind of joyfully, just try to allow that nature to just shine out
and to see that, to really see that in our experience, in our surroundings, and those
who are around, what we see, hear, smell, taste, touch, reflect on, these are all just movements
of Buddha nature happening in our direct experience.
Thank you, so, becoming a soft-hearted practitioner, many of us have had just like the exceptional
fortune to be around beings, people, who've really mingled their lives, their hearts and
their minds with Dharma, Venerable Kenshin Paul and Chair Rinpoche, Venerable Kenpo Seo
and Doanor Rinpoche, sure, their father Lamachime, his son is Dujur Rinpoche, his son is the Dala
Lama, his son is Saketra Zen.
There's so many masters, and like sometimes we've had the great fortune to be around some
of these beings, many of us, and we can see their teachings kind of indirectly, in videos,
podcasts, can read their writings, it's such a special time now, but they're these living
examples of what it means like to be accomplished in the Buddha Dharma, to really fully mingle
with the nature, to be natural, and there's just so much care.
We can know, in my experience, the little window of time I've gotten to be at Padmasamyaling,
this wonderful Vajra family, the Sangha, and around Venerable Kenpo Rinpoche's, how many
precious opportunities to be in their presence, and they're just so kind.
There's just like this emanating atmosphere of kindness, and just a deep courage, and
this unshakeability, this mighty dignity, and this uncompromising kind of care and dedication
to the Dharma, to the Buddha Dharma, to the teachings of the Buddha Shakyamuni, Guru Padmasambhava,
all these lineage masters.
Some of us have had that, and we really know this is not an idea like we've been in their
presence.
What is it like when someone's so mingled, so natural, they're so infused with the Dharma
all the time?
There's so much kindness, there's so much flexibility.
They're just so elegant, and so timely, and so free, and so present.
They really care about details, they really show up when they're with you, when they're
kind of teaching in the in-between times, they're just so tuned in, they're really in touch.
They're so soft-hearted, and that's like, that's kind of an, it's one of those fortunes
that it's invaluable, because we can see directly for ourselves what it's like to be accomplished
in this path, that it's possible, and we have living examples, and we can ask them for help,
for guidance, well how can I do this, and what are the steps for me, specifically for
me with my afflictions and obscurations and challenges, and they'll give us just fine-tuned
exact advice and guidance, that then we have to apply ourselves in our formal practice,
and in our lives, and we can see if it works, and enjoy the benefit.
All the Dharma is aiming, like so many, it's such a radical teaching, and it's in Sutra
Mahayana, and maybe we've heard it some, I'm sure, that in the end Dharma leads us where
we actually care about others more than ourselves.
We're around others, and we genuinely, from the core of our heart, we just care about
others first, and we've been around beings, and you can tell that's what they're doing.
They come into a room, they don't think everyone look at me, or listen to me, or this is why
I'm so great, like they don't have that, it's just that stickiness is just not in their
field.
You can just feel it, you can see how that's, they're so free of that, because there's such
a deep care and kindness to other beings, and it's so steady, and they're so active and
ready to help, they just respond with what's needed.
So that's what kind of, I think, as a lived experience more, that's kind of what I'm thinking
of, when I think of a soft-hearted practitioner, they're not just filled with a lot of ideas
about Dharma, they're really in touch with living Dharma in their experience right now,
deep wisdom and deep compassion, at the same time they're not just escaping the worldly
concerns and all the responsibilities by just only practicing as if it's some extra thing
that you kind of do on the side or separate from life.
They practice ceaselessly, so much practice, so much study, but it's all so they can benefit
other beings more, more beings, more effectively, you can just see it.
I mean I don't know, I don't know what that's like from my personal experience, but I can
see what other beings who like kapiramic is, what they're like, to become a really genuinely
soft-hearted practitioner, and not just sensitive where there's anything happens and we're kind
of upset, or anything happens and we get so reactive, not soft in that way.
Soft meaning really genuinely tender with compassion, and so there are these four types
of compassion, Camperimic is taught on this about Chandra Kirti mentioned when he went
to pay refuge, paid refuge to compassion, that's actually the source of all these qualities
that we're activating, we're expanding, we're revealing in ourselves our Buddha nature qualities,
compassion.
We can have compassion first, there's four kinds.
Compassion for a being who's suffering, you can see there's so much suffering, they're
upset, their body's shaking, something just, they went through some challenge difficulty,
they lost a loved one, really upset, and we can have compassion for them, all this, and
the emotions, it's really wish you didn't have to go through this, I wish I could take
that on for you, you can be free of that suffering, that's the first kind of compassion.
The second kind of compassion is we're actually compassionate about the cause of the suffering,
oh I can see in my own mind, these are just disturbed, destructive states of mind, these
negative emotions, this endless nam talk, conceptualization, always what's going on
for me, what's this, what's that, and the story just unfolds endlessly, I'm the center
character and basically what's happening to me.
So Buddhism define that in different ways, but always ignorance, we're not seeing clearly,
we're not one, you could say in Mahayana terms, we don't see our Buddha nature, we're seeing
the coverings of the Buddha nature, the stains, the afflictive emotions, so we can have compassion
for that, oh look there I go again, not seeing, I'm not seeing my Buddha nature, I'm not seeing
the Buddha nature of the other being, oh really, this is so much suffering, this causes so
much suffering, so instead of being so concerned emphasizing the outer, the more result aspect
of the suffering, of being who's suffering, look a little closer, what's the cause of
the suffering, we can have compassion for being caught up in those afflictive emotions,
the five poisons, that way if someone's really suffering in a way that's like makes us really
scared, very nervous, we can not so much get caught with a person, but more with like what's
actually causing the distress, let's say it's almost like a wounded animal, and it can't
help if you go to a dog that's really so in so much pain and you go to pet it to calm
it down and it just naturally, it can't stop itself, it just goes to bite you, it can't
help it, what's the cause, not to get angry at the dog, but all the cause so caught in
this suffering, this all this ignorance and this kind of all the afflictive emotions and
they can't help it, you know, and we can have compassion for ourselves in that way too.
Then they say the third kind of compassion is just kind of more compassion without focus
or it's compassion that doesn't require an object to be there for the compassion to be
on, it's just more of like the pervasive nature of one's own awareness is just naturally
compassionate,
it's naturally caring, it's naturally like responsive and receptive, inclusive and flexible,
that when the mind and the heart get open and settled, spacious, free, call it when
it's kind of recognizes its emptiness, then it starts to like include more cause condition
and effect just naturally, it just naturally extends this field of compassion and so that's
the third kind of compassion, compassion without focus or without object, just being a radiating
kind of present awareness of compassion and then the fourth thing homage to compassion
is just when that compassion then arises in a more tantra Mahayana or Vajrayana perspective
arises as a deity, that compassion takes the shape, more expressive kind of outreaching
power say you could arise as Chenrezig Buddha of compassion and this is a more kind of outreaching
expression of the Buddha nature, so that's compassion arising as a deity, you can take
this not just I'm a deity but in the mandala of the deity doing enlightened activities
with other beings that are deities too, those that are around us, this is a fourth kind
of compassion, I was thinking like how to actually, how do we actually you know free
all beings from suffering, I mean it's just like there's endless beings throughout endless
space, endless time and I was thinking for myself it can't be one by one for these noble
ones and in my own kind of imaginative way that's more like playful or metaphorical in
a way I kind of see it as these beings create really create these atmospheres that are so
skillful like their presence, you know you see an experience where everyone shows up
in a room say this room and Kemper Rinpoche is here teaching and there's like a bunch
of people in this room and you can just feel the radiating presence of their bodhicitta,
it's just on and just happening and but everyone feels it in a different way and then Rinpoche
gives a teaching and there's very different things that are highlighted by each student,
each person with what sticks out in their mind and their experience of what the Rinpoche
said, how they were in the room, Rinpoche in this sense there's this atmosphere of compassion,
this bodhicitta is so big they're not trying to it's not like one by one they're trying
to like connect with each being and then translate each thing one at a time as if it's just a
computer kind of computing, they're just this field like a dharma like a tattoo like this
spaciousness that's just suffused with compassion and we get in that and our own Buddha nature
is in that space in that field and we relax in a way we feel seen our Buddha nature is like I can
be
comfortable here I can be like actually challenged or encouraged to like shine more brightly here,
this dignity turns on the kind of create courage of the Buddha nature turns on the clarity of the
wisdom like suppleness or the kind of sparkling dazzling kind of outreaching compassion kind of
turns on it's in this field this atmosphere of being in the presence of these enlightened
beings these noble ones it's almost like in the field things just kind of settle and just more
naturally they just settle into what they are I think that's much more doable in my mind that's
more helpful in a living experience as the days go by which they keep doing right how can I just
and right now I had to truly really activate some compassion some tenderness in my heart and some
spaciousness in my mind and I don't need to know exactly what's the right thing to say or what's
the exactly calculated right thing to do as if there's only one thing that's going to be a
appropriate in a circumstance but just to genuinely like try to really generate compassion kindness
and really see the kind of like this is such a flexible flowing kind of situation we're in this
impermanence like Lama lai went through last week going through all the ways that this experience
we have is so impermanent it's so fleeting it's like everything is instantly becoming a memory
all the time we really try to hold our experience and it's just evaporates as we reach for it it's
really kind of like in one way scary how it's so beautiful we just can't pin it down we can
never get it all the way we want it it just keeps moving and generate that's so scary if we're
trying
to control it look at this it creates so much opportunity for wonderful connection with beings
to serve beings to like express love we try to do that more and more regularly just kind of wider
more inclusively these four balance qualities you know like this is for all beings just be
a field like to turn this on as a living experience wisdom and compassion and kind of try to really
open the doors of our hearts our minds and that's really just kind of be this atmosphere of
compassion
and to see the illusory nature of the experience this wisdom quality as well and this can sound
very general all of kind of what I'm saying now like where the five points and the fours of this
and the three of that and the two things like in Buddha dharma is filled with these kind of
checklists of very actionable very practical things we can do to actually become that to
mingle our minds and hearts with that and we've heard so many of them and then part of what's
kind of really needed is we need to know for ourselves and our minds and in this moment like
which one is helpful for me right now which one of those things is it for boundless is it like par
me to a discipline is it relaxing trying to see the true nature is it activating kind of a certain
kind of quality of enlightened expression I mean there's just so many techniques we need to remove
myself do I need a little more time for hermitage practice do I need to actually make a call to a
person that I keep trying to avoid should I read a dharma book and I kind of really clarify some
points maybe read a life story of yes she's sojaw say wow look at what she went through I have a
hard time with my is you know plumbing getting clogged look at what yes she's sojaw went through
wow this is she was undisturbable this is so courageous whatever these are all skillful means
but we don't have to apply them all at once just what will help my mind now so with mindfulness
self-awareness what's my what do I need now to just relax and be an atmosphere of compassion
for other beings and then it's like with with study reflection and meditation I think that
atmosphere kind of really does crystallize it really gets more kind of like reflective of what
someone else is going through and it can responsibly kind of reflect whatever's helpful
for that particular being and that that is very helpful we were study knowing these lists of
things and really seeing how do I tease apart the causal conditions of interactivity of
relationship
of interdependence dependent arising types of really kind of like conceptually really see that
from a more variety of perspectives and to chew on it to contemplate it to really mingle with it
and become it become those teachings saturate ourselves with meditation trying to really be
in the four boundless states and then we see prayers prayers aren't just like a something
we're accumulating or doing they're just reflective kind of like activating reminders
this is what my experience is doing now and then I show up is this way and then this quality is
turning on now and we're just like it's just a guidebook to our own present moment experience
and we're just like kind of doing the highlight reel in real time of like all the wonderful
lovely things that we're doing in asadana
how to become a soft-hearted practitioner I don't know I find when I don't know I'm like
obviously usually there's like a big stack of books here and I like dharma like scriptural dharma
and dharma like realization or really applying it for sure but also you know the pithy part
of just need to really know like what to apply right now and it needs to be simple need to be
able to do that the great master atisha when he went to tibet when Tara encouraged him to go to
tibet and he got there and he saw there was a great master I think it was Rinchan Zampo
I think it was a really great translator great translator and he asked this great translator
like what are the what do you know about dharma and he went on to explain all this scriptural
dharma and it was so elegant and so extensive and comprehensive and atisha was like oh I don't
really need to be here in tibet it's all all the dharmas here and then atisha asked this great
master will like how do you practice all that and this great translator went on to say all this
practices you need to do to accomplish each part of it and it'd take a long time very kind of like
extensive gradual approach to practice and then atisha thought oh this is why I'm here
how do we synthesize all the teachings together in a way that's very practiceable and practical
that we can apply in our living experience right now and so oh this is really a benefit
this is an important thing to be able to do and we can see like all these great masters this
one is dujurimbechhe, miphamrimbechhe, longchampa, great rangzompa, ragaase, karma chagme, so many
of these masters of course the kempa rimbechhes, venerable kempa rimbechhes they're so good at
taking extensive teachings and distilling them into the very condensed simple points
that all we have to do is just take the point connect with it with devotion with kind of the
warps of devotion and really kind of activate it in our lived experience and it becomes this
very simple elegant way to bring all the 84,000 teachings into a very simplified form and that's
kind of what the dujurimbechhe does and it's what pith instruction essentially does
and then it's up to us to like really turn on those qualities that the teachings are pointed
to and to try to maintain that living thread of those pith instructions or those really synthesized
very condensed pithy kind of like powerful points in our lived experience like the three noble ones
like wisdom and compassion or all of it as one word bodhicitta
but to do it in a way that really touches us it really moves us not just say bodhicitta
or say pure perception as if acting like a dharma person is the same as really being dharma like
really being soft really genuinely like having this tender hearted like i really others are more
important than me there is a path to awakening and it's clear what the path is and it's possible to
do it and there's gods living gods that can help us do it and it's challenging to go through a path
of transformation and it's more challenging to suffer endlessly in samsara with no way out
so the path is definitely going to activate the ways that we resist our own buddha nature the
ways that we close up and shut down and kind of just me first and we forget this is about actually
serving beings being a loving presence for other beings and so whatever it takes for us to do that
in our lived experience if first we need to equalize we're all how are we all the same
and then we can do exchanging practices i'm going to take my happiness and give it to you
and i'll take your suffering and i will take it and i will genuinely want that to happen
and eventually where that just becomes oh you're more important what can i do
what can i do what can i do and we've been around beings that actually are like that
and that is just like an impactful thing in the mind and the heart that it's just one of the most
precious things we can ever experience to actually be around beings like that not just for an hour
it's not like they had a good weekend or they're in front of a camera and so all of a sudden they
'll
act real loving they're just it's like that when his only style ama says oh you should check your
teacher spy on me he said his only style ama spy on me look at me how am i on the cushion off the
cushion in between when it's hard when it's easy is there bodhichitta bodhichitta bodhichitta look
at your teacher you can see if you go around be around to a place like this padmasamy ling long
enough you can look at rambhiches all the in-between times they're just constantly caring about
beings
all the little ants and just everything they're just constantly wanting to
care for a space where people come into it and it's like dharma
and we can become like that it's so lovely i mean i love all the to be a healing balm you know
i love all the kind of systems of buddha dharma i mean it's just so extraordinary what the buddha
taught and gurumche and then to see beings that have really they do that and they're so
kind of they can change just like this elegant chameleon to fit exactly a situation
that's easiest for bodhichitta to really turn on for people to really feel seen for the buddha
nature to really shine on and it's just so lovely and amazing and i'll just repeat some just the
words of rambhiches illuminating the path and just listen it's just so sweet like there's so
many books and it's just so it's like really just comes off this is in their bodhichitta section
generation of bodhichitta and illuminating the path it's almost like you can just pick up these
books and like pick a page like there's just just see then it's like so much dharma just coming out
page 97 to practice the dharma does not mean running away from samsara
since we're already engaged in this world we should observe everything closely
until we begin to practice we're always trying to hide and escape from pain
this is futile because we always end up unhappy but by practicing the dharma we can be free
within the world and engage it creatively when we practice looking closely we discover the inner
patterns of life and no longer feel the need to run away and hide this does not mean that we
should settle for simply enduring samsara the buddha encouraged us to be brave and committed
to our own enlightenment and to the enlightenment of all beings when we do this everything is
transformed and purified we learn to move with situations full of vision and confidence whether
here or in the bardo with this understanding we're able to enjoy and appreciate our situations
maitreya the future buddha said that this realization lets us move from life to life
as if we're strolling from one garden to another this expansion of compassion depends on our
attitude we might think how can i possibly love so many beings but we need not be discouraged
since our mental potential is limitless and capable of extending everywhere to wish and imagine
that
our love reaches out in all directions to bless all beings is the practice of aspiration bori ch
itta
though we may not see immediate results through bori chitta we will eventually fulfill our wishes
we need to open our hearts to all living creatures until now we've been trapped and
have limited our ability within a cocoon of ego clinging and attachment to ourselves and phenomena
without being discouraged we can break through this cocoon with our loving intentions
bori chitta opens our hearts to radiate love and compassion to all beings this is what we have to
practice it just keeps going on and on i mean it's like in one way simple and things we've heard so
much but it's just all there and there's two more books just to say because i mean of course
on the path to enlightenment hard advice from great tibetan masters this is compiled by machi
rekard and it goes into all these different three yana approaches to buddhism and i went to
the compassion section here but there's just all quotes nojo ken rimbece page 80 nojo ken rimbece
it's therefore essential to meditate all the time on love and compassion until we love others more
than ourselves that is the lifeblood of our spiritual practice and must always remain so
to love others more than ourselves it's so astounding
and there's a passage by his only do a cancer impetit here page 83
this i mean just this is like just dripping with things
page 84 and so on as do a cancer mache it's very important to meditate with your whole being on
bodhicitta until it becomes clear just how meaningless and frustrating the activities
of this life really are you will be touched and saddened by the debilitated condition of
beings in this dark age and a strong feeling of determination to be free from samsara will arise
if these attitudes truly take root the qualities and achievements of the mahayana the great vehicle
are sure to grow from them but if that genuine determination to be free from samsara is not
firmly implanted in your mind your dharma practice will never be able to fully develop
all sentient beings are the same and wishing to be happy and not to suffer
the great difference between oneself and others is in numbers there's only one of me but countless
others so my happiness and my suffering are completely insignificant compared to the
happiness and suffering of infinite other beings what truly matters is whether other beings are
happy or suffering this is the basis of bodhicitta we should wish others to be happy rather than
ourselves and we should especially wish happiness for those whom we perceive as enemies
and those who treat us badly otherwise what is the use of compassion
i mean we're just so privileged and then we're just one more from this only is dojram Rinpoche
a torch lighting the weight of freedom the complete instructions on the preliminary practices
his only is dojram Rinpoche again in his bodhicitta section for the dojram chairsar nandro
soft-hearted soft-hearted is when we hear these teachings it's like oh my gosh like this is
amazing you know if we don't have that it means something's wrong i mean honestly when i pick up
a dharma book and i'm like okay that means something's not active in my mind it's not the
that's why they say with teachers right teachers shouldn't have to be all charismatic and
entertaining and basically sell the dharma the dharma sells itself like if we're actually
activating the dharma in our experience these even this word of this dharma is wow this is a
total treasure this is exactly the helpful thing but then that's up to us each of us you know
not rely so much on the container or the expression the person the cup but like what's the tea like
what's in the drink what's the ambrosia of dharma what's actual dharma to really ready ourselves to
like be impacted or moved by the dharma you know great masters would just make that easy
they make it so easy for us
196 sentient beings are identical to us and all wanting to be happy we're all the same and not
wanting to suffer and we are also all the same in our ultimate nature and that we have no intrinsic
existence moreover since there's only one of me whereas other beings are very numerous
not only are we equal but other beings are more important so this is the same this is like this
echoed by all the masters for this reason this wish to bring all beings to buddhahood is not to
be left as a merely an intellectual idea i mean must be something you definitely apply to your
own mind to make progress in this you must cease to consider yourself important but consider any
sentient being even if it is only a single one as extremely important thus you should be only too
willing to devote yourself exclusively to helping others in both your thoughts and deeds joyfully
undertaking even very painful ordeals for their sake if you know it will make them happy by
thinking of others welfare even when you're moving about walking lying down or sitting you will be
training and accumulating merit and wisdom on a vast scale these being the means for making
bodhichitta grow because we're ordinary beings faults and downfalls that transgress the bodhisattva
vow often occur and we must be certain to part from them and renew our vow in the best case in
each of the six periods of day and night in the middling case at the beginning and end of four
sessions at the very least once a day and once a night to renew the bodhisattva vow should it
happen that negative forces make you ill or injure you people speak ill of you are your afflictive
emotions become very intense pile up on top of such situation all the undesirable things that
happen to beings sorry pile up on top of such situations all the undesirable things that happen
to beings if you find yourself in painful circumstances recognize that it is because
your past deeds and instead of getting depressed take on others suffering if you find yourself in
happy situations dedicate your wealth and influence to virtuous ends do not remain idle
but spur yourself to performing positive actions physically and verbally and pray that all beings
may be happy whatever unpleasant things happen to you falling ill getting depressed getting
involved
in disputes suffering loss or defeat rather than feeling resentful of others put the blame on
yourself thinking this is simply my reward for considering myself more important goes on and on
this is just like the vast view of these really noble ones that we've had the good fortune to be
around this i think is just really pointing out to how they are even if we're not there yet i'm
certainly not there yet at all i hear that and my ego starts to shake and tremble and fight it you
know but i'm important too you know like it's just like that's very highlighted in our very
hyper individual culture but me what about me so i have that training and conditioning but being
around these beings it's really like they just don't have that happening in their minds and their
hearts you can just tell be in their presence in their atmosphere of kindness and compassion
so really genuinely following in their footsteps really like try to really just be an atmosphere
of kindness at the very least we're trying to not harm beings really kind of love them
just quietly low-key quiet do our practice make it really try to really make it genuine
even just for as we do practice if we can really try to genuinely bring up this heart
of compassion all beings may this be a cause for every single being to be enlightened very soon
just really pray and ask the buddhas to make this wish true look at look ask the buddhas
look at me if this is really true this wish i really wish this to happen please use all your
skillful means to make the wish come true all beings be free of suffering the cause of suffering
that's kind of it how to become a soft-hearted practitioner it's more just becoming it the how
is like we've received the teachings but just the just to know what a soft-hearted practitioner
they're actually these very brave beings and they don't treat themselves as doormats or that
they're very clear and detailed very uncompromising with the dharma authentic lineage dharma
and they just always love beings they're always loving impartially and they celebrate other
beings happiness they just they're so happy when other beings are happy and then they just continue
today's a good day tomorrow's a better day you could see every day rippet chaise to finish the
stupa project one day the next day they're on to the next project i've seen it a million times
from my perspective it's exhausting but from their perspective it's more to celebrate more
ways to serve beings more ways to honor the three jewels the buddha dharma look at this precious
opportunity we have let's do more stupas let's i mean they just keep going right right we've
really seen it and then we have that we just join their wave help when we can take a break try to
relax reconnect to our practice and our motivation really try to like okay what's the point of the
dharma make it a lived experience just even for a minute really turn on this heart of art of
enlightenment this really close feeling to beings close feelings to the teachers the lineage really
feel it i don't really really feel it and that's like the devotion to really be a soft-hearted
practitioner i love it it's like a very special thing to be in the presence of beings who are
really turning that on and each other too because if say these noble ones have it always on but if
you're around a friend and you can tell they really care about you and their love's coming out
and they're really genuinely interested and they just like they're thinking of your happiness you
know they're like celebrating you like in those moments we can be that for each other you know
this is sangha mutual support to sangha we can really help uplift each other like that
don't have to wait till we're on the boomies or something we do that now just from these little
bits little short periods and like we really boost each other up and that's kind of living
kind of living dharma bit by bit and i think it's amazing how much big impact that has
for each other like for ourselves so thank you so much friends when we practice together
thank you thank you simple but true i think simple but true
you